# My App development journey

 I started to learn React Native after joining Android Club 🤠. It has been a very great experience for me to learn Android App development. I didn't even know Web development fully when I started learning React Native. So, I had to learn HTML, CSS and JS first and then I jumped into React. For the first few classes, I didn't understand much because of the lack of technical knowledge 😔. But, I started to get a hold of it while doing the assignments on my own. I am really grateful to the Tech leads of Android Club VITC for teaching me React Native and responding to my doubts then and there 😁.
 
 My main aim for doing this VITC-bot is to have all the official websites and contact details in a easily accessible way. I also integrated a FAQ bot which responds the same when queried 🗨️. We can use this app in the case of emergencies to look into the contact details. Also, the Bot will help with the same. All the official websites are grouped in a single screen for effortless navigation. 
 
 First of all I started developing the FAQ bot, I used Gifted Chat and Dialogflow for creating the bot. Gifted Chat is a React native library which provides the UI for Chatbot, while Dialogflow provides the responses for the user queries. Intents are created in Dialogflow to respond and an API call is used to fetch the results from the Dialogflow. Then, I implemented the Login page. For that, I used React native firebase, which is a Google Cloud Platform service, which helps user authentication, app hosting and many more things. The user provides an Email-ID and password which is saved in the Firebase Dashboard. The login authentication is taken care by Firebase only. It checks the validity of the Email and Password and creates an account. 
 
 Then the last step is to create the links and the Home Screen of the app. React native Linking is used to provide the URL handler and navigate to the specific URL's page. All the official social media sites like Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram etc. are given. The Google map direction of VITC and the In-Campus map is also present in a Modal feature. There is also a SignOut button placed in the Home Screen, which handles the SignOut feature, which in turn is handled by Firebase. The Text to speech feature didn't work properly in the Android Emulator. But, it works well in my smartphone, if connected via USB debugging. The Screens are placed in a Stack Navigator so that they can be navigated from one to another. The Screenshots and the Demo of the App is given in the ReadME section. 

I am really enjoying myself while creating an App. This pushes me to explore and try new things. I hope I'll create new projects and learn more 😄. I've loved this journey so far and I'm expecting it to be exciting in the future too 😍.
